DUST-cNIGHT tokenomics (#137)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: docs/develop/tokenomics/dapps/building-with-dust.mdx

---
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
sidebar_label: "Building DApps with DUST"
---

# Building DApps with DUST

Guidance for using DUST as the execution resource in DApps.

## Paying fees in DUST

- Transactions consume DUST Ensure the sender has enough DUST under the current parameters (generation, decay, caps).

## Estimating cost

- Do not hardcode constants. Always query live parameters (generation, decay, caps).
- Prefer node/SDK estimators where available; otherwise use a short **“estimate → submit within validity window”** flow.

## Wallet connection & checks

- Before submit, verify:
  - **Registration state** and **mapped DUST address** (when relevant).
  - **Available DUST** ≥ estimated requirement (with a safety margin).
  - Provide a remediation path if prerequisites aren’t met.

## End-to-end flow (no code)

### Connect & identify actors
<StepsProvider>
  <Step>Connect the user’s Cardano wallet (and Midnight account if your flow needs a recipient).</Step>

>   <Step>Record the Cardano address that will fund the transaction.</Step>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <Step>Record the Cardano address that funds the transaction.</Step>
```
